# Sphintoxetry-cookiecutter
A Cookiecutter template for projects using `Sphinx` + `tox` + `poetry`. This template is developed thanks to the [tutorials by the cookiecutter project](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials/index.html) along with the instructions provided by [HelloCookieCutter1](https://github.com/BruceEckel/HelloCookieCutter1/blob/master/Readme.rst). 

# Getting started

First, install the [cruft](https://github.com/cruft/cruft) package. Cruft enables keeping projects up-to-date with future updates made to the original template.

```
pip install cruft
```

Next, create a project using the `Sphintoxetry-cookiecutter` template.
```
cruft create https://github.com/hrshdhgd/sphintoxetry-cookiecutter
```

This kickstarts an interactive session where you declare the following:
 - `project_name`: Name of the project. [defaults to Project_X]
 - `file_name`: The name of the main python file. [defaults to `main` for `main.py`]
 - `greeting_recipient`: Just a string that will be displayed when the boilerplate code is invoked. [defaults to `World` as in `Hello, World!`]
 - `author`: The author of the project. [defaults to Harshad Hegde <hhegde@lbl.gov>]
 - `github_token_for_doc_deployment`: The github token name for document deployment using `Sphinx`. [defaults to `GH_TOKEN`]
 - `github_token_for_pypi_deployment`: The github token name which aligns with your autogenerated PyPI token for making releases. [defaults to `PYPI_TOKEN`]

This will generate the project folder abiding by the template configuration specified by `Sphintoxetry-cookiecutter`. 

# What does this do?

With this template, the following files and directories are autogenerated:

 - Github wokflows:
   - For code quality checks (`qc.yml`)
   - Documentation deployment (`deploy-docs.yml`)
   - PyPI deployment (`pypi-publish.yml`)
 - `docs` directory with `Sphinx` configuration files and an `index.rst`file.
 - `src` directory structure with the `project_name` directory within it.
   - Within the `project_name` directory, there are 2 python files:
     - `main_file.py`
     - `cli.py` for `click` commands.
 - `tests` directory with a very basic test.
 - `poetry` compatible `pyproject.toml` file containing minimal package requirements.
 - `tox.ini` file containing configuration for:
   -  `coverage-clean`
   -  `lint`
   -  `flake8`
   -  `mypy`
   -  `docstr-coverage`
   -  `pytest`


# Further setup

## `poetry`
Install `poetry` if you don't already have it installed.
```
pip install poetry
```
## Install dependencies
```
poetry install
```

## Run `tox` to see if the setup works
```
poetry run tox
```

This should run all the bullets mentioned above under the `tox` configuration and ideally you should see the following at the end of the run:
```
  coverage-clean: commands succeeded
  lint: commands succeeded
  flake8: commands succeeded
  mypy: commands succeeded
  docstr-coverage: commands succeeded
  py: commands succeeded
  congratulations :)
```

And as the last line says: `congratulations :)`!! Your project is ready to evolve!

# Final test to see everything is wired properly

On the command line, type the `project_name`. In this example, `ABCD`:
```
ABCD run
```
Should return `Hello, **greeting_recipient value chosen during setup**`



